thank you all thank you for your
attention thanks to everybody on the
panel I could just ask you all to remain
seated just for a few minutes in
exploration there needs to be the set of
people who have no rules and they are
going into the frontier I've never heard
of a moment in history where an entire
field is hinging on a single event the
Large Hadron Collider the biggest
machine ever built is finally going to
turn on you take two things and you
smash them together you get a lot of
stuff out of that collision and you try
to understand that stuff could be
nothing other than just understanding
everything little did I know and I
started that the experiments would take
30 years and Here I am still not knowing
I really want to know the truth first
time I ever saw it I can remember
walking in and just being stunned like
five stories completely filled with
custom design hand soldered micro
electronics there are 10,000 people over
a hundred nationalities to tow a hundred
thousand computers deal with the data in
fact the world wide web was invented at
CERN so that physicists could share the
data this is really my generation is
only shot let's get started everybody
now comes the day of reckoning it
given the complexity are already about a
week or two behind we're saying that all
the tools are breaking it fix question
what the risks it would be a catastrophe
for physics this helium leak really
frustrating you got magnets sheet of
their jackets lady Castro fee we're at a
fork in the road and it's cranking up
the suspense as much as it possibly can
we made us call that additional space
they mention the mystery and the origin
of the universe we may be at the end of
the road the entire control room is like
a group of six-year-olds whose birthday
is next week
it's incredible if it's happened in my
lifetime
whatever we learned is going to have a
dramatic impact on the way human beings
think about the universe forever